for now let's move on to Thailand where
next week it will hold a constitutional
referendum if the eyes have it Thailand
will adopt its 20th Constitution Bob
what are some of the key features of the
proposed Constitution
well it's interesting to note first of
all Stewart and then run-up to this
great deal of concern on the the
military who runs Thailand that there
not be you know politicking ahead of
this referendum in terms of opposition
rallies and so forth or even really much
of a drill down and what the referendum
is about people have been in jail
there's a very tough act that was
enacted referendum Act that would put
people in jail for up to 10 years for
violations of this sort of blanket order
of no protests and so forth and the
referendum itself makes repeated
reference to efforts to cut down on
corruption and the whole referendum
process has made a repeated reference to
corruption and cutting down in
corruption and this is gonna stabilize
Thailand and so forth and so how would
it do that well it's proposing that the
reintroduction of an upper house of the
legislature in Parliament so a Senate a
250 person Senate that would be
appointed not directly elected and some
members of it would be from the Armed
Services if it sounds like over tons of
Myanmar it is although me and Maher
seems to be moving in an opposite
direction from Thailand at this point
there are also mechanisms for the Senate
to have power and choosing the Prime
Minister and generally ways in which the
military would have levers for
dissolving Parliament if it saw fit you
know having a military holding all these
levers is usually not a recipe for for
both stability in the long run as well
as cracking down on corruption it's just
corruption of a different sort
it does seem ironic to see the u.s.
opening to Myanmar on the one hand where
things although not hardly perfect are
seem to be going in a positive direction
but obviously was considered really a
rogue state or Praia state from the
perspective of the United States for a
while and yet things going in a sense in
the opposite direction as you point out
in Thailand which obviously is remains a
storm to us treaty Ally
two years after the military seized
power in Thailand voters are being asked
to approve a new constitution which
critics say could extend the Army's
influence well into the future Prime
Minister Prayuth chan-ocha suppressed
political activity since the coup and
banned all criticism of the new charter
come out because today is important for
the future please don't think it doesn't
matter that it doesn't count whether you
come to vote or not this is for the
future of the country but Thailand's
first female premier al stood days
before the coup banned from politics for
five years and now on trial rejects the
charter is undemocratic you know in the
in the debates about atheism one of the
snotty self-righteous things that
atheists like to say is that the
difference between science and religion
is that science still matters even if
you don't believe in it now sad fact is
some science still matters even if you
don't believe in it there are actually
many theoretical questions many
interesting fascinating areas of
scientific research that do not impact
people's daily lives in any way if
they're unaware of them if they don't
believe in them it's certainly possible
to sleepwalk your way through life being
ignorant of huge areas of scientific
knowledge and you know many of them
fascinating may them may be rewarding to
you personally to put your time into you
know reading as a layperson sitting by
the fireside reading a tome on
theoretical physics
or they may matter to you as as matter
as part of your profession as part of
your um your passion in life you know
maybe an area where you do original
research whoever you are watching this
video but it's a funny thing because you
know political science politics
political science still matters even if
you don't care about it even if you
ignore it even if you don't believe in
it
and it still impacts your daily life
anywhere you are in the world anywhere
you are that's inhabited by other human
beings you ignore it at your peril and
you really when you ignore it
you really are impoverishing yourself
mentally emotionally in so many ways
this question of permanent vacation of
being a long-term expatriate in a
country like Thailand many other
examples living for years in the country
we have no contact with no concern with
political reality it's one that I've
addressed on this channel again and
again and the current events in Thailand
and the total silence the total lack of
any comment from my fellow vegans living
in Thailand on on recent political
events I could speak for two hours about
it easily unscripted scripted or
unscripted at you know it's something I
feel strong but I have a lot to say
about but for this video I want to make
a very simple point only and and leave
this as a short statement of the matter
this question of living in a state of
voluntary ignorance voluntary
disengagement from political reality to
me it is parallel to one of the core
questions we ask in veganism parallel
not the same doesn't mean there's any
point of contact between them parallel
as a vegan when you talk to meat eaters
often enough you're gonna meet people
who respond to the issue of animal
suffering of you know the exploitation
of millions of animals on an
unbelievable scale animals living their
whole lives on a concrete floor in a
steel cage suffering from the day
they're born the day they die sometimes
never seeing a blue sky etc etc the
horrors from their conception birth life
of exploitation for example in the dairy
industry to their execution to be cut up
and used as food there are people who
respond to that by saying to you and
they may explain it at length by saying
to you sincerely that they just don't
care or that they care a little bit but
they care much more about the pleasure
they get from
mead drinking milk etc they care about
something else more self-indulgence of
some kind and then you as a vegan may
find yourself in the awkward position of
looking them in the eyes and trying to
ask them to care right that's the
hardest thing in the world there's an
ancient Latin saying about that you know
I think it's villain on this couture you
can't teach the will you can't teach
them to want something you know you can
teach somebody facts but you can't teach
them how to want to learn you can't
teach them out of want it whatever it is
your your teaching you know I can't
teach you how to care right I can show
you the facts I can tell you what the
milk industry really is how the meat
industry really works but can I make you
care about it no and it's a tremendously
weak position to be in as a vegan to
have to be asking someone to care if
you're in Thailand for a period of a
year or several years and you you just
don't care what do I do if I find myself
in that position of having to look in
your eyes and ask you to care it's
actually not to make Thailand a better
place you know it's not it's actually
inviting you to be a better person and
it's it's the same thing with veganism
face-to-face eye-to-eye on that level of
one person refusing to drink milk or eat
meat there's no way you can really claim
to be saving the life of an animal it's
it's merely symbolic it's merely a drop
in the bucket there's no sense in which
you and I and five of our friends are
having some kind of impact on the
aggregate demand for beef that's gonna
close down a slaughterhouse or save the
life of even one cow I wish it was true
but it's not but what changes is you
what changes is who you are how you see
the world how the world sees you and
that change starts because you care
it's not the same issue this question of
politics pure and simple brass tacks
politics real politics political science
and that question of caring about animal
welfare suffering etc it's not the same
but there is a parallel there that I can
draw and last things first I can ask you
to care but I don't have to argue on
that point because this isn't a religion
we're not talking about things that only
exist if you believe in them we're not
talking about things that only matter if
you care about them political science is
still important even if you don't care
consequences still count it still
matters even if you don't care the
millions of tons of untreated sewage
from pig farms and cow farms that get
poured into rivers ultimately into
oceans it still matters actions have
consequences whether or not you care and
on the ecological side of veganism
that's where it doesn't matter whether
or not you care about the animals it
doesn't matter actions still have
consequences when we scale up the
consequences of millions of people
eating millions of animals those
consequences are truly terrifying truly
frightening to poll and when we scale up
the consequences of public indifference
of millions of people like you choosing
to live in voluntary ignorance whether
it's voluntary ignorance of political
reality or voluntary ignorance of
ecological reality we have a parallel
hmm Banas yen